<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd" []>
<concept id="GUID-60d6fed1-34e2-22e1-853a-5d2d3aa3001f">
  <title id="title">Tags to Text</title>
  <conbody>
    <p>A 
      <term>Dita</term>
 topic consists of 
      <term>tags</term>
 and 
      <term>text</term>
    </p>.


    <p>To count tags we count the actual number of tags in the document.  So, if
the document contains three paragraphs bracketted with 
      <term>p</term>
 tags, then we add
three to the total numbers of tags not just one.  Let us do this for a specific
document and record the number as 
      <term>tags</term>.

    </p>
    <p>For text, we count each span of text uninterrupted by a new 
      <term>tag</term>. 
Doing this might
produce a number 
      <term>texts</term>.

    </p>
    <p>To obtain the 
      <term>tagsToTextRatio</term>
 for a document we divide the number of tags
      <term>tags</term>
 by the number of 
      <term>texts</term>.   
If the document is empty or contains no 
      <term>text</term>

elements we say that the ratio is 
      <cite>unknown</cite>.

    </p>
    <p>The ratio is chosen to exhibit larger numbers for documents that have more
tags in them relative to the same text.  Of course, owing this it is easy to
abuse this ratio by adding lots of empty 
      <term>tags</term>
 or infinite chains of 
      <term>b</term>

tags nested in side each other.   However, such transgressions are easy to
detect in an automated manner and so can be discounted.
    </p>
    <p>Typical 
      <term>HTML</term>
 Documents have a 
      <term>tagsToTextRatio</term>
 of about 
      <term>1.3</term>.

    </p>
    <p>
      <term>Dita</term>
 documents written by a beginner have a 
      <term>tagsToTextRatio</term>
 of about
      <term>1.5</term>.

    </p>
    <p>More advanced users of 
      <term>Dita</term>
 tend to exhibit a higher 
      <term>tagsToTextRatio</term>

in their work, usually exceeding 
      <term>2.0</term>
 but often going much higher.  Imagine
for example a well laid out 
      <term>task</term>
      <term>topic</term>
 with 
      <term>steps</term>
 and 
      <term>substeps</term>,

each containing several 
      <term>step</term>
s, each 
      <term>step</term>
 containing a 
      <term>cmd</term>
 etc.
Advanced users tend to be able to supply more vertical descriptions of their
subject matter, they are characterized by being on top of their subject and
thus can express it useing less text and nore tags, leading to a higher
      <term>tagsToText</term>
 ratio.
    </p>
    <p>
      <term>Xref</term>
 reports the 
      <term>tagsToText</term>
 ratio in the 
      <filepath>counts/</filepath>

as 
      <filepath>tags_to_text_ratio.txt</filepath>
    </p>
  </conbody>
</concept>
